So when you're going back,
you have these two situations.
So the event is called resume,
the first one.
In this case, we are back from suspension,
and we were still in memory, okay?
So no need to restore the state because
all my global variables are still there.
My focus, my cursor is still there.
What the user has typed is still there.
Everything is still there because
we are dephrasing the context.
Makes sense?
But maybe my tab was discarded by
the browser or by the operating system.
Or maybe the whole browser was
discarded including my context.
So in that case,
the second part is the one that we use.
It's just the load event or
the DOMContentLoaded.
It's a normal load but in this case,
we check the wasDiscarded property.
So if it's true,
we have to restore the state.
Yep.
>> Are freeze and resume on a standards
track or is that proprietary?
>> So it's in the standard track.
It's a W3C API but
because Chromium is the only implementer.
So it's not actually a final editor
recommended spec, so it's a draft.
And as many Chromium only things,
I'm not sure if they will get stable
spec because they need at least
two engines implementing the API.
We haven't heard a word from WebKit or
Gecko about this.
So that's the problem.
So, in fact,
I think if you Google the API,
you will probably find an article
on the Chrome website.
It's really a Chromium API but it's open.
I mean, it's in W3C, the draft,
but it's Chromium only.
That's why we are not going to
focus too much on this API.
It's actually pretty simple anyway, but
that's why I encourage you to
play with the visibility change.
And unless you have really a heavy state,
or really you have a lot of
heavy situations,
I shouldn't encourage you to try this API.
In fact, out there, like 0.0002% of
the websites are using this API,
compared to 5 to 8% using
the page visibility API.
That's the simplest one.
But yeah, we are overdoing things
with the page visibility API.
Maybe we're saving the state
more than we need.
On mobile devices, as I mentioned before,
the page lifecycle API.
So this one that is their freeze event and
their resume event,
it's not typically available.
Again, you save data but
I encourage you to use visibilitychange,
that will work on iPhone, on iPad,
on Android, on desktop as well.
On desktop,
you have more situations to handle,
in case you wanna be more specific.
On mobile it's simpler actually,
the user is getting out of
the browser most of the time.
And you restore the state, in the case
of mobile devices, when the page loads.
Using the timestamp you can
decide to restore the state or
start a new navigation.
So I'm saying this, on mobile,
it's actually a pretty common design
pattern to actually restore the state
through the previous session.
It doesn't matter if the user
closed the app or not.
So typically when you open an app,
the app tries to restore the state.
It doesn't matter how you
ended up using the state.
Unless, one,
large amount of time has passed.
In that case,
you decide to just reload the app.
Okay, on a website,
it's actually not so simple.
I mean,
if you type facebook.com in your browser,
Facebook is not trying to restore
what you were reading previously.
That's not typically what happens.
But on mobile apps,
typically we try to restore whatever
you had in the recent past.
Unless a day has passed or
a week has passed since last session.
So you can replicate that UX pattern for
your web apps as well.